Ravello_Ansible_module.adoc, before:

:scrollbar:
:data-uri:
:toc2:

== Requirements & Instructions on Using the Ansible Ravello Module

:numbered:

== Overview

The purpose of the Ravello Ansible module is to provide a way to interact with Ravello using their SDK.  The goal is to be able to query, build and deploy Ravello applications using Ansible without having to interact with the Ravello UI.

== Requirements

. Install Ansible `http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/intro_installation.html`
. Install the Ravello SDK via **pip**
+
NOTE: For manual setup instructions see `https://github.com/ravello/python-sdk` and for additional documentation see `http://ravello-sdk.readthedocs.io/en/ravello-sdk-1.4/`
+
----
pip install ravello-sdk
----

=== Test Ravello SDK

. Clone the ravello-sdk locally to use the example scripts
+
----
cd <desired_dir>
git clone https://github.com/ravello/python-sdk.git
----
+
. Change to the **examples** directory
+
----
cd python-sdk/examples
----
+
. Set up credentials file for Ravello using your username and password
+
----
./set-creds
Enter username: yourlogin@redhat.com
Enter a Password:
----
+
. Verify saved credentials
+
WARNING: This will display your password in plain text on the terminal
+
----
cat ~/.ravello_login
<username>
<password>
----
+
. Test the script to get all blueprints you have access to
+
----
./bp-get-all
<all blueprints you have access to>
----

=== Test Capture of Ravello Environment Metadata to JSON

. Test the script to get all applications you have access to
+
----
./app-get-all
<all apps you have access to>
----
+
. Test the script to get all metadata for a specific application and write it to a JSON file
+
NOTE: The option **-a** is for a full JSON dump of extended application metadata
+
----
./app-get-data -a <one app name from output in previous step > myapp.json
----

== Using the Ravello Ansible Module

=== Create YAML Template

. Create template from existing app:
+
----
./app-get-data -a <your_application> 2>/dev/null|python -c 'import sys, yaml, json; yaml.safe_dump(json.load(sys.stdin), sys.stdout, default_flow_style=False)' > out.yaml
----

. Remove everything that is not in the *design:* section.  This is at the beginning and end of the file.

. Under *design:* remove all subsections except *vms:*

. Remove any line with *applicationId:*, *creationTime:*, *loadingStatus:*, *loadingPercentage:*, *fqdn:*, *allocatedIp:*, *externalAccessState:*, *ipConfigLuid:*, and *useLuidForIpConfig:*.

=== Example Application Creation w/Playbooks

. Example playbook using template provided in this repo:
+
----
---
- hosts: localhost
  tasks:
      # Create app, based on blueprint, start it and wait for started
    - local_action:
        module: ravello_app
        # Make sure you update the version number as the name must be unique
        name: 'example_app-v1.0'
        description: 'Example blueprint created by ansible'
        app_template: '/home/user/ansible-ravello/app_template.yml'
        state: design
----
+
[NOTE]
The *name* field must be unique.  All blueprints must have a unique name.  Typically this is achieved by changing the version number in the name.

=== Create Blueprint From Template

----
ansible-playbook design.yml -vvv
----

----
Using /etc/ansible/ansible.cfg as config file
 [WARNING]: provided hosts list is empty, only localhost is available


PLAYBOOK: design.yml ***********************************************************
1 plays in design.yml

PLAY [localhost] ***************************************************************

TASK [setup] *******************************************************************
Using module file /usr/lib/python2.6/site-packages/ansible/modules/core/system/setup.py
<127.0.0.1> ESTABLISH LOCAL CONNECTION FOR USER: prutledg
<127.0.0.1> EXEC /bin/sh -c '( umask 77 && mkdir -p "` echo $HOME/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666189.73-18007598170313 `" && echo ansible-tmp-1481666189.73-18007598170313="` echo $HOME/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666189.73-18007598170313 `" ) && sleep 0'
<127.0.0.1> PUT /tmp/tmp7TPuB1 TO /home/prutledg/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666189.73-18007598170313/setup.py
<127.0.0.1> EXEC /bin/sh -c 'chmod u+x /home/prutledg/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666189.73-18007598170313/ /home/prutledg/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666189.73-18007598170313/setup.py && sleep 0'
<127.0.0.1> EXEC /bin/sh -c '/usr/bin/python2.6 /home/prutledg/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666189.73-18007598170313/setup.py; rm -rf "/home/prutledg/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666189.73-18007598170313/" > /dev/null 2>&1 && sleep 0'
ok: [localhost]

TASK [ravello_app] *************************************************************
task path: /home/prutledg/ansible-ravello/design.yml:5
Using module file /home/prutledg/ansible-ravello/library/ravello_app.py
<localhost> ESTABLISH LOCAL CONNECTION FOR USER: prutledg
<localhost> EXEC /bin/sh -c '( umask 77 && mkdir -p "` echo $HOME/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666190.57-63460892520707 `" && echo ansible-tmp-1481666190.57-63460892520707="` echo $HOME/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666190.57-63460892520707 `" ) && sleep 0'
<localhost> PUT /tmp/tmp7TPuB1 TO /home/prutledg/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666190.57-63460892520707/ravello_app.py
<localhost> EXEC /bin/sh -c 'chmod u+x /home/prutledg/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666190.57-63460892520707/ /home/prutledg/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666190.57-63460892520707/ravello_app.py && sleep 0'
<localhost> EXEC /bin/sh -c '/usr/bin/python2.6 /home/prutledg/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666190.57-63460892520707/ravello_app.py; rm -rf "/home/prutledg/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666190.57-63460892520707/" > /dev/null 2>&1 && sleep 0'
changed: [localhost -> localhost] => {
    "blueprint_id": "76743737",
    "changed": true,
    "invocation": {
        "module_args": {
            "app_template": "/home/prutledg/ansible-ravello/app_template.yml",
            "application_ttl": -1,
            "blueprint_description": null,
            "blueprint_id": null,
            "blueprint_name": null,
            "cloud": null,
            "description": "Example blueprint created by ansible",
            "name": "example_app-v1.0",
            "password": null,
            "publish_optimization": "cost",
            "region": null,
            "service_name": "ssh",
            "state": "design",
            "url": null,
            "username": null,
            "wait": true,
            "wait_timeout": 1200
        },
        "module_name": "ravello_app"
    },
    "name": "example_app-v1.0"
}
----

=== Check for Blueprint

. Log into Ravello and check if the blueprint exists.

. The next steps would be to deploy the blueprint with this ansible module as a new application, inventory the app, and apply final playbook(s) to the resulting VMs then create final blueprint from that.

Commit message:

Added ansible repo git clone

Ravello_Ansible_module.adoc, after:

:scrollbar:
:data-uri:
:toc2:

== Requirements & Instructions on Using the Ansible Ravello Module

:numbered:

== Overview

The purpose of the Ravello Ansible module is to provide a way to interact with Ravello using their SDK.  The goal is to be able to query, build and deploy Ravello applications using Ansible without having to interact with the Ravello UI.

== Requirements

. Install Ansible `http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/intro_installation.html`
. Install the Ravello SDK via **pip**
+
NOTE: For manual setup instructions see `https://github.com/ravello/python-sdk` and for additional documentation see `http://ravello-sdk.readthedocs.io/en/ravello-sdk-1.4/`
+
----
pip install ravello-sdk
----

=== Test Ravello SDK

. Clone the ravello-sdk locally to use the example scripts
+
----
cd <desired_dir>
git clone https://github.com/ravello/python-sdk.git
----
+
. Change to the **examples** directory
+
----
cd python-sdk/examples
----
+
. Set up credentials file for Ravello using your username and password
+
----
./set-creds
Enter username: yourlogin@redhat.com
Enter a Password:
----
+
. Verify saved credentials
+
WARNING: This will display your password in plain text on the terminal
+
----
cat ~/.ravello_login
<username>
<password>
----
+
. Test the script to get all blueprints you have access to
+
----
./bp-get-all
<all blueprints you have access to>
----

=== Test Capture of Ravello Environment Metadata to JSON

. Test the script to get all applications you have access to
+
----
./app-get-all
<all apps you have access to>
----
+
. Test the script to get all metadata for a specific application and write it to a JSON file
+
NOTE: The option **-a** is for a full JSON dump of extended application metadata
+
----
./app-get-data -a <one app name from output in previous step > myapp.json
----

== Using the Ravello Ansible Module

=== Clone the Ansible Ravello repository

. Change to a directory of your chosing
+
----
git clone https://github.com/RedHatDemos/ansible-ravello.git
----

=== Create YAML Template

. Within the cloned repository directory, create template from existing app:
+
----
./app-get-data -a <your_application> 2>/dev/null|python -c 'import sys, yaml, json; yaml.safe_dump(json.load(sys.stdin), sys.stdout, default_flow_style=False)' > out.yaml
----

. Remove everything that is not in the *design:* section.  This is at the beginning and end of the file.

. Under *design:* remove all subsections except *vms:*

. Remove any line with *applicationId:*, *creationTime:*, *loadingStatus:*, *loadingPercentage:*, *fqdn:*, *allocatedIp:*, *externalAccessState:*, *ipConfigLuid:*, and *useLuidForIpConfig:*.

=== Example Application Creation w/Playbooks

. Example playbook using template provided in this repo:
+
----
---
- hosts: localhost
  tasks:
      # Create app, based on blueprint, start it and wait for started
    - local_action:
        module: ravello_app
        # Make sure you update the version number as the name must be unique
        name: 'example_app-v1.0'
        description: 'Example blueprint created by ansible'
        app_template: '/home/user/ansible-ravello/app_template.yml'
        state: design
----
+
[NOTE]
The *name* field must be unique.  All blueprints must have a unique name.  Typically this is achieved by changing the version number in the name.

=== Create Blueprint From Template

----
ansible-playbook design.yml -vvv
----

----
Using /etc/ansible/ansible.cfg as config file
 [WARNING]: provided hosts list is empty, only localhost is available


PLAYBOOK: design.yml ***********************************************************
1 plays in design.yml

PLAY [localhost] ***************************************************************

TASK [setup] *******************************************************************
Using module file /usr/lib/python2.6/site-packages/ansible/modules/core/system/setup.py
<127.0.0.1> ESTABLISH LOCAL CONNECTION FOR USER: prutledg
<127.0.0.1> EXEC /bin/sh -c '( umask 77 && mkdir -p "` echo $HOME/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666189.73-18007598170313 `" && echo ansible-tmp-1481666189.73-18007598170313="` echo $HOME/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666189.73-18007598170313 `" ) && sleep 0'
<127.0.0.1> PUT /tmp/tmp7TPuB1 TO /home/prutledg/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666189.73-18007598170313/setup.py
<127.0.0.1> EXEC /bin/sh -c 'chmod u+x /home/prutledg/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666189.73-18007598170313/ /home/prutledg/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666189.73-18007598170313/setup.py && sleep 0'
<127.0.0.1> EXEC /bin/sh -c '/usr/bin/python2.6 /home/prutledg/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666189.73-18007598170313/setup.py; rm -rf "/home/prutledg/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666189.73-18007598170313/" > /dev/null 2>&1 && sleep 0'
ok: [localhost]

TASK [ravello_app] *************************************************************
task path: /home/prutledg/ansible-ravello/design.yml:5
Using module file /home/prutledg/ansible-ravello/library/ravello_app.py
<localhost> ESTABLISH LOCAL CONNECTION FOR USER: prutledg
<localhost> EXEC /bin/sh -c '( umask 77 && mkdir -p "` echo $HOME/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666190.57-63460892520707 `" && echo ansible-tmp-1481666190.57-63460892520707="` echo $HOME/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666190.57-63460892520707 `" ) && sleep 0'
<localhost> PUT /tmp/tmp7TPuB1 TO /home/prutledg/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666190.57-63460892520707/ravello_app.py
<localhost> EXEC /bin/sh -c 'chmod u+x /home/prutledg/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666190.57-63460892520707/ /home/prutledg/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666190.57-63460892520707/ravello_app.py && sleep 0'
<localhost> EXEC /bin/sh -c '/usr/bin/python2.6 /home/prutledg/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666190.57-63460892520707/ravello_app.py; rm -rf "/home/prutledg/.ansible/tmp/ansible-tmp-1481666190.57-63460892520707/" > /dev/null 2>&1 && sleep 0'
changed: [localhost -> localhost] => {
    "blueprint_id": "76743737",
    "changed": true,
    "invocation": {
        "module_args": {
            "app_template": "/home/prutledg/ansible-ravello/app_template.yml",
            "application_ttl": -1,
            "blueprint_description": null,
            "blueprint_id": null,
            "blueprint_name": null,
            "cloud": null,
            "description": "Example blueprint created by ansible",
            "name": "example_app-v1.0",
            "password": null,
            "publish_optimization": "cost",
            "region": null,
            "service_name": "ssh",
            "state": "design",
            "url": null,
            "username": null,
            "wait": true,
            "wait_timeout": 1200
        },
        "module_name": "ravello_app"
    },
    "name": "example_app-v1.0"
}
----

=== Check for Blueprint

. Log into Ravello and check if the blueprint exists.

. The next steps would be to deploy the blueprint with this ansible module as a new application, inventory the app, and apply final playbook(s) to the resulting VMs then create final blueprint from that.
